# Auditory Evoked Potentials (AEPs)
This is a write-up to contain and share my understanding of auditory evoked potentials and its application gain understanding of speech perception and cognition.

The human brain is a fascinating signal processing system. Signals are relayed into brain regions from various sensory organs, like the eyes, ear, skin, nose etc., and brain has to respond - often, in fraction of a second. It is true that every organ in human body is incredible in its built and operation, and you may ask what's special about the brain which has captured the imaginatiton of a large number of 21st century researchers? Well, most of the sensory organs have been anatomically well understood since 18-19th century, and we have been able to argue about "the how" of their working as peripheral signal processing units. Example, we know the internal, physically segregatable structure of ear in a lot detail, like, the basilar membrane, organ of corti, malleus, incus and stapes, and also we know how these structures transform air pressure variations into electrical impulses synapsed to the auditory nerve fibres. Similar insights also exist for eyes. However, what happens when it comes to our understanding of brain? Surprisingly, insights on the anatomical details of brain started to be noticed only in the early 20th century. Further, what was striking is that most of the brain was found to be composed of a lump tissues - gray and white matter, and segregating it further into distict physical hasn't been as straight forward as other organs of human body. It is only in the mid- and late- 20th century that we have been able to figure out the brain's topographical map - linking where the sensory organs of the human body are mapped onto the brain's anatomy. However, the unique contribution of different brain areas to behavior is yet to be elucidated. It is only in 1920s that it was found that -  neurons serrve as discrete processing units in the brain, and these neurons interconnect to form networks in complicated ways which is responsible for behavior. Visualizing and experimenting with neurons, and their networks was not possible in the 20th century. With the development of novel engineering techniques to capture brain signals, it has been possible to now probe the behavioral response of brain.


> Electro-encephalo-graphy (EEG) is one such technique. When it comes to capture brain signals a key requirement is the method should be non-invasive and EEG satisfies that. In EEG, electrodes are embedded on a cap, and on wearing this cap a contact is established between the scalp and the electrodes. On wiring the electrodes to an oscilloscope we can see voltage fluctuations and that's the EEG signal. Capturing this signal is not a recent idea (dating back to 1890s) but its usability as a technique to capture brain's response has increased over time. This is due to - i. use of more number of electrodes, ii. better electronics enabling better capture of signals from the scalp, iii. new computational techniques for data analysis, and iv. developments in brain understanding derived from other techniques. In this tutorial, I will focus on recording EEG signals from the point-of-view of gaining insight into how brain processes speech.



